                                      Vout


RATINGS

  o Voltage .................: 5-12 V
  o Current .................: 3 A
  o Logic board current (max): 20 mA


BOARD

  o Board size ...........: 42.50 x 72.00 mm (4.74 sqin)


PARTS                              

  o C 100nF, X7R (0805)                                                         DK:490-4789-1-ND
  - C1                                  Voltage regulator.
  - C2                                  Decoupling.

  o C 10uF /16V, tantalum (M3528)                                               DK:478-3874-1-ND
  - C3                                  Voltage regulator.

  o D STPS2L60A (SMA)                                                           DK:497-2461-1-ND
  - D1                                  Reverse polarity protection.

  o DS LED (3mm)                                                                DK:754-1256-ND
  - DS1 DS2 DS3 DS4                     Measurement input selection.
  - DS5 DS6                             Measurement type selection.

  o DS LTC-4624JR, 3x 7-seg 1mA, 0.4" common anode                              DK:160-1544-5-ND
  - DS7                                 7-segment display.

  o J MSTBA 2,5/ 2-G-5,08                                                       DK:277-1106-ND
  - J1                                  Voltage input.
  - J2-J4                               Voltage output.

  o R .1 1%, (2512) - CRA2512-FZ-R100ELF                                        DK:CRA2512-FZ-R100ELFCT-ND
  - R1-R4                               Current sense resistors.

  o R 680, 0.125W (0805)                                                        DK:RMCF0805FT680RCT-ND
  - R5-R12                              Cathode resistor (3.3V, 1.9mA).

  o R 1K 1%, 0.125W (0805)                                       	            DK:RMCF0805FT1K00CT-ND
  - R13-R16                             Current sense monitor scaler.
  - R17-R20                             Low-side voltage divider.

  o R 4K7 1%, 0.125W (0805)                                                     DK:RMCF0805FT4K70CT-ND
  - R21-R24                             High-side voltage divider (5.7:1 ratio).

  o S Tactile 6x6mm, SPST-NO                                                    DK:450-1647-ND
    S1 S2

  o U ZXCT1009, (SOT23)                                                         DK:ZXCT1009FCT-ND
  - U1-U4                               High-side current sense monitor.

  o U PIC16F1516 (SSOP-28)                                                      DK:PIC16F1516-I/SS-ND
  - U5                                  Micro-controller.

  o U LD1117DT33TR, (DPAK)                                                      DK:497-1236-1-ND
  - VR1                                 Voltage regulator.


CASE

If case is desired, board should fit perfectly within Phoenix Contact module:
  o PhoenixContact 2970442 (UMK-SE 11,25-1)                                     DK:2970442-ND
  o PhoenixContact 2970028 (UMK-BE 22,5)                                        DK:2970028-ND

Additionaly, if DIN mounting is needed, there is an option:
  o PhoenixContact 2970031 (UMK-FE)                                             DK:2970031-ND


CONNECTORS

Input and output use Phoenix MSTBA 2,5/ 2-G-5,08 board connector. For suitable
plug check it's datasheet. I personaly like MSTB 2,5/ 2-ST-5,08.

These connectors use standard 0.2" spacing. If one desires, almost any connector
can be used here (e.g. MSTBVA 2,5/ 2-G-5,08 or MKDSN 1,5/ 2-5,08).


BUTTONS

Buttons are directly connected to PIC and internal pull-up is configured.


REVERSE DIODE

Diode will protect circuit from temporary voltage reversal. Most common example
would be mixing up positive and ground wire.

This is only intended as short-term protection for voltage regulator and
microcontroller. There is no protection for outputs. Reverse voltage state
lasting more than few seconds might damage device regardless.

If unsure of input voltage polarity, one can connect wires either way and watch
whether it works (should be instantaneous). If it does not light up disconnect
input immediately and swap the wires. If 3.3V LED lights up, polarity is
correct and outputs can be connected at this time. 


CURRENT SENSING

Vsense was selected in order to be 300 mV at 3 A.
  Rsense = 300 mV / 3 A = 0.1 Ohm

Rout is selected in order to Vout to be as high as possible at far end of scale:
  Vout = 0.01 * Vsense * Rout
  Rout = Vout / (Vsense * 0.01)
  Rout = 3.2 V / (300 mV * 0.01)
  Rout = 1066 Ohm = 1000 Ohm

In this case maximum voltage on output should be:
  Vout = 0.01 * Vsense * Rout
  Vout = 0.01 * 300 mV * 1000 Ohm
  Vout = 3 V


ADC

Reference voltage for ADC is taken from Vdd (3.3 V).

10-bit ADC gives us resolution:
  ADCres = 1 / 1024 * Vref
  ADCres = 1 / 1024 * 3.3
  ADCres = 0.003 V

For voltage input that uses 1K and 4K7 resistors in voltage divider we need to
calculate in ration of 5.7:1.
  Vres = ADCres * 5.7
  Vres = 0.017 V

In case of current we 1 V representing 1 A of input current so there is no
further adjustments:
  Ires = ADCres
  Ires = 0.003 A

Of course, this leaves out other effects of ADC that have influence on reading
precision and precision of other components (e.g. voltage divider, current
monitor error, voltage regulator precission, temperature...). You can view this
as absolutely best case scenario. Real life figures are bound to be a bit worse.


COMPONENT SELECTION

Components selection was driven mostly by my personal component storage. If I
use some component for other projects and it has acceptable cost, I would use
it. Best example of this would be voltage regulator which is overkill for this
purpose. But it is something that I used in other project and I always have one
in my component bin.

Value of LED resistors (R5-R12) is not really critical so higher tolerance can
be used.

Do notice that for display LED both anode and cathode are connected to
microcontroller output pin. Since any pin of PIC can sink or source 25 mA and
we have 8 LEDs connected to one pin (common anode) maximum current for each
segment should be kept bellow 3 mA.


OPERATION

Device measures either voltage, current or power. Button named UNIT determines
which value is measured. By default it measures voltage. Pressing a button
changes measurement to current. Pressing button again changes measurement to
voltage * current. Next press cycles back to measuring voltage.

Current measurement type is indicated on LEDs V and A. LED V is on when voltage
is measured. LED A is on when current is being measured. Both LEDs are on when
power measurement is being done. 

Button named NEXT selects which input/output is measured. It starts by measuring
input and each press cycles it in order of IN, OUT1, OUT2, OUT3.
